[WHOOSH]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we are with Richard Doty, a
retired counterintelligence
agent who served in
the Air Force office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately involved
with UFO ET-related content.
Welcome, Richard.
>>RICHARD C. DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
>>EMERY: Nellis Test
and Training Range
is part of Tonopah Air
Force Base in Nevada.
It's been reported that there
was a UFO base located there.
What was a UFO base doing within
the parameters of an American
Air Force base?
>>DOTY: Well, go
back a little bit.
Tonopah Air Force Base is within
the Nellis Test and Training
Range with Area 51 and
including the Nevada Test Site,
which is now the Nevada
National Security Site.
We located a UFO base
at Urania mountain,
which is in the western portion
of Nellis Test and Training
Range, which was on
Tonopah Air Force Base.
And we found this
when two women--
in 1983-- had contacts with
an extraterrestrial race.
>>EMERY: So what did this
contact with these two women
have to do with
this Air Force base?
>>DOTY: Let me go back
and tell you that story.
Two women driving on
Nevada Route 6, which
is north of Nellis Test
and Training Range, west
of Warm Springs,
Nevada, were driving
in a September day in 1983
when they saw a spacecraft.
They referred to
it as spacecraft.
The craft landed,
they were contacted,
and they had missing time.
They reported this to Nevada
law enforcement authorities--
Nevada Highway Patrol and the
Nye County Sheriff's Office.
Nye County Sheriff's
and the state patrol--
the Highway Patrol
notified Tonopah Air Force
Base, the security
police desk sergeant,
and reported that
these two females had
seen some kind of a craft,
and they were afraid
that they might
have been abducted.
Immediately the security
police desk sergeant
notified Air Force Office
of Special Investigation.
I, at the time,
was at Groom Lake,
which is about 80 miles away.
I was notified of it.
Myself and another
agent then traveled up,
and it took a couple hours
to get to Tonopah, and then--
to Tonopah, Nevada,
not the air base.
There's a Tonopah, Nevada about
40 miles outside Tonopah air
base.
And we met up with
these two females,
and they told us this story.
Told us that they were
traveling, they saw this craft.
The craft landed.
They had a contact,
they had missing time,
and they were afraid
that they might
have been exposed to radiation.
That was their danger.
And that was what they told
the Nevada law enforcement
authorities.
We transported these two
females to Nellis Air Force Base
hospital, where they were
examined by military doctors.
They were not exposed
to any radiation,
but they did have strange
marks on their bodies.
So with their consent, we did
a hypnotic interview of them.
And during this
hypnotic interview,
they explained to us that
they were transported
to this huge facility
in a desert location
somewhere in Nevada.
How they explained it to
us-- it was a complex way
we were examining--
interrogating them.
And we weren't
interviewing them,
we were actually
interrogating them
because under hypnosis,
you can be more forceful.
And we were more forceful.
And they gave us details of
a mountain that we knew--
because we were familiar
with Nellis Test and Training
Range--
was in fact Urania mountain,
which is in the Cactus mountain
chain of western part of the
Nellis Test and Training Range.
These females,
during the interview,
described these beings in
clear terminology to them.
They were hideous looking.
They had large noses.
They referred to the
noses as elephant noses.
And they were tall, very tall.
But they didn't feel harmed.
They weren't hostile.
They kept reassuring
them in some voice--
they didn't describe it
as telepathy or anything.
They heard voices telling them,
we're not here to hurt you.
We're not going to harm you.
But they were in a facility.
And listening to what they
told us as far as the facility,
it was a big opening facility,
they explained to us,
and there was some
beings walking around.
And there were rooms.
But they were not in the room.
They were in an open area.
But they were on a table,
and they couldn't move.
So then we started
an investigation.
And one of the parts of
the investigation, we
flew over the area some
days later in a helicopter.
And the first flight over the
area, we didn't see anything.
We just saw the mountain.
There were some
testing facilities east
of the mountain range, but
we didn't see anything else.
But as the helicopter
banked to the west--
and I asked the pilot, let's
make one more pass around it,
but this time, let's go right
over the top of the mountain.
When we went over the
top of the mountain,
the mountain had been--
was open.
We could see down
into the mountain.
I said, my god, look at this.
And the other agent on
board the helicopter
said, that mountain just opened.
Because before, it wasn't
open when we flew over it
15 or 20 minutes earlier.
>>EMERY: Does the opening--
like a mile, two miles, or?
>>DOTY: I would say the opening
was probably at least a mile.
And I didn't know we
had the technology
to do that, number one, and
I thought it was our base.
And that's why I tell the
helicopter pilot, hey, let's
get a little bit lower
to look at this--
I mean, what kind of base
they have down there.
I'm thinking of S-4, and
I'm thinking of Papoose.
And he was a little reluctant to
do that, because he didn't know
was down there either.
He said, well, I'll get
as close as I feel safe.
Because he's a pilot, so he's
in control of the aircraft.
So we got a little
lower, and we could
see the distinct
structures down there.
There were, like, buildings
inside here, little buildings
all around.
There were probably a dozen
of these little buildings.
They appeared to be rectangle
or square structures.
They didn't have any--
a peaked roof or roofs on it.
There were some reflective--
something reflective coming up.
We could see-- the
area was lit up,
so there was lights down there.
They were around the
edge of the mountain,
inside this hollowed mountain.
And then in the center
area, it was all open.
And there was something
in that center area
that from our altitude,
I couldn't make out.
But we figured, when I started
thinking about it more,
that was the alien craft that
these two women had contact
with.
That mountain opened and that's
where that craft went and hid.
So we flew back to Tonopah.
We landed at Tonopah.
Immediately we went to the
base commander's office.
And we asked the base
commander, what's
going on Urania mountain?
He said, what are
you talking about?
I said, do you have anything
that you can tell us
about Urania mountain?
He said, no.
I said, is that no because we're
not cleared, or no because you
don't know?
He got very upset with us.
Now, here we are,
special agents--
we're federal agents--
and he's a full bird
colonel in the Air Force.
And you understand the
mentality a full bird
colonel had-- this is my base.
Don't ask me questions
about my base.
>>EMERY: The fact he got
upset already red-flagged it.
[LAUGHS]
>>DOTY: Exactly.
And I said, well,
we need to know,
because something
happened out here.
And then we briefed him on it.
He said, I'm not at liberty
to discuss it any further.
You guys can leave my office.
So we said, thank you, sir.
And we left his office.
Then we immediately responded
by sending a teletype--
the old teletype system--
up our chain of command.
And I said, we need to know
what's going on out there.
And we need to get permission.
Now, he worked for a
numbered Air Force commander
at Edwards Air Force Base.
So we thought, well,
we'll go to him--
he was general, one-star
general, brigadier general--
and we'll ask him to let
that commander give us
permission to find out.
When we went to the general
at Edwards Air Force Base--
>>EMERY: Uh-oh.
>>DOTY: --he didn't
know anything about it.
He said, I don't know
what you're talking about.
As far as I know, there's
nothing going on out there.
So then he went to the KY-3--
it's a secure phone; you
can talk classified up
to top secret over it.
He calls him.
He said, what's going
on at Urania mountain?
And the colonel tells
the general, General,
I can't tell you.
And again, the general
says, you can't tell me
because you don't know,
or you can't tell me
because I'm not briefed?
He said, General, I
just can't tell you.
Now, that upset the general.
Now, he's a one-star general.
So he tells me, he says, I'm
going to get you the security
clearance you need,
because I'm about
ready to relieve that colonel
of his command out there.
So he made some phone calls.
We left and went
back to Groom Lake.
We'd been on a plane,
a T-39 we'd flown.
And that was late afternoon.
And I get a call from my boss.
And my boss tells me, you go up
to see the colonel at Tonopah.
He's going to brief you.
>>EMERY: Wow.
>>DOTY: So it was too
late in that afternoon.
We waited the next day.
We went up there.
He sits down with us.
He's red-faced.
You know he's upset.
You know he doesn't
want to do this.
>>EMERY: You went over his head.
>>DOTY: Right.
Went over his head.
I said, sir, I'm sorry that
I had to do that, but--
he said, you should have came
back to me and asked me again.
I said, you said, get out
of my office, and we did.
He said, there's something
going on down there
that we don't know about.
I said, what are
you talking about?
He said, listen, it's
beyond our capability.
You want to go down there?
You go down there, but you
better take a gun with you.
Well, I always carried--
we had a--
I carried a 45, a
special 45 that OSI had.
I said--
>>EMERY: I was surprised they
allowed you to fly over that
secured area, because I thought
that was part of Tonopah--
that mountain.
>>DOTY: It is Tonopah.
But he didn't know we
were flying over it.
>>EMERY: Oh.
>>DOTY: He was unaware
that we'd flown over it.
We got a special mission--
a Lieutenant, only I think,
I think first lieutenant,
got us a mission.
We OSI, we need to do this,
you've got a helicopter.
>>EMERY: Go for it.
>>DOTY: Yeah, you've
got a HH-3, we flew.
So I said, well, what
are you talking about,
we going to need a gun?
What, is there
animals down there?
Or what is down there?
What kind of gun do
you need us to take?
He said, an M16.
And I said, why would we want
to take an M16 down there?
He said, you'll find
out when you get there.
I said, you can't give us any
more information than that?
He says, I don't know.
I really don't know.
And I felt that he was sincere
there, that he didn't know.
I said, well, who
would we find--
who would we talk to?
So he said, well, the
chief of security police.
So I went to the chief
of security police, who
was at the time a major.
And I asked the major, I said,
we want to go down to Urania.
He said, I need to send some
troops down there with you.
I said, why?
What's going on down there?
He said, we really don't know.
I said, you want to tell
me in straight words what
you're talking about?
He said-- he looked
around the room,
he said, let's go
into the other room.
So we went in the back room.
It was like a supply room.
He sat down and he
looked down on the floor,
and he kind of looked around.
And he said, there's aliens
living in that mountain.
I said, extraterrestrial aliens?
Yep.
I said, that's why
the mountain opens?
Shakes his head.
I said, so what are we going
to find when we go down there?
He said, we only went down there
once, and we never went back.
So I said, you went down there--
you climbed the mountain?
He said, no, no, no, no.
There's a tunnel.
The old uranium mine
is there, and there's
a tunnel that leaves--
by the old mine shaft.
We had built that--
the test site built
that for a testing area.
They were going to
test lasers in it.
And when they got a certain
point into the mountain,
about a mile in, they realized
there were visitors there--
and this is what
he's telling us--
so we got out of there.
So I said, the United States
Air Force and United States Army
is pulling out of a
place that you saying--
now, did you actually see them?
He said, no, I never saw them.
So I said, I want
to go down there.
So I got a couple
of agents, and there
was a security detail
of 12 to 15 of them,
I believe, security police.
And they were armed.
I didn't take an M16.
We didn't take it.
We had them and I was trained
in them, but I didn't take them.
I had my handgun.
>>EMERY: Yeah, plus
you had the whole crew.
>>DOTY: Yeah, plus-- those
guys are going to protect us,
at least I hope.
We went down there,
we walked in.
I mean, we went in.
And they had erected a
huge vault door because
of what they found inside.
And there was combination
locks and so forth,
and it took some time for it
to get the big vault door open.
And the security
guys go, there it is.
I said, well, you
guys going in with us?
And they kind of
looked at each other.
It was a lieutenant that
was the leader of them.
If you insist.
I said, have you
been here before?
He said, yeah.
I said, have you seen anything?
He shakes his head, yeah.
I said, are they
extraterrestrials?
What do they look like?
He said, they're
pretty hideous looking.
I said, did you shoot them?
No.
They never fired at us,
we never fired at them.
We just got out of there.
And this is all
like a movie plot.
>>EMERY: Right, yeah.
>>DOTY: I'm saying--
I'm looking at my agent and
I don't believe any of that.
I really seriously
don't believe it.
I think there was--
my thinking was,
there's something
else down there
that they want to scare us away.
Form of disinformation that
they were trying to pull on us.
>>EMERY: Right, that's
what I would think.
>>DOTY: And I'm
saying, you know what?
I actually think you
guys know what's there--
some kind of secret facility,
training facility or research
facility, and you just don't
want us to know about it.
He said, no, no,
no, no, no, no, sir.
I'm telling you.
I said, well, let's go.
I want to see these
aliens myself.
There wasn't any
lights in this tunnel.
Once we got beyond
the door, it was dark.
The only light I could
see was light coming out
of the tunnel area,
or the opening
that was in front of us, which
was probably another 75 yards
in front of us.
As we kept walking forward,
I had a flashlight on,
the agent next to me
had a flashlight on,
and it was lights behind us
from the security police.
As we get closer,
we see a light.
We see that something's
illuminated in there.
And we hear this humming sound.
And I asked the lieutenant,
I said, what's that?
What's that sound?
Is that some kind of experiment?
He said, I don't know.
Seriously, sir, I'm
telling you, I don't know.
So we get closer and closer
and closer and closer
and closer and closer.
And I realize something's
going on in here.
The security force
stayed their ground.
And they said-- they looked
at it and said to me,
we got your back, but we're
not going to go any farther.
As I got close to the
opening, this being
appeared, as if he
walked around a corner.
What I could see
from that angle--
it was that position and I'm
about 50 yards from the being--
it was tall.
Over six foot tall.
Had a very large expenditure
coming out of its face,
similar to what the ladies
described as an elephant nose.
It wasn't as long as
the elephant nose.
It came out.
And I wasn't sure if it was some
kind of a breathing apparatus
that was placed over their face.
I couldn't see the
eyes because the being
is silhouetted in the light.
I had a flashlight.
Flashlight wasn't that strong.
I couldn't totally
illuminate the being.
Had very long arms,
probably went down to its--
what I would call its knees.
Had very long fingers.
It appeared to me to
be reptilian looking.
Had a very long,
distorted face, almost as
if the being had pock marks
or something else on its face.
And I thought about this later.
The being might have had
some kind of facial mask on,
and that's what
the appendage was.
>>EMERY: Sounds like it, yes.
>>DOTY: Yeah,
because it might not
be able to breathe our
atmosphere, or maybe too
much oxygen or not enough.
Didn't have any ears
that I could see.
But again, I'm
looking at it, and I'm
shining a flashlight on it.
At that point, I felt--
discretion's the
better part of valor.
I never drew my weapon.
The agent next to me, he
had more combat experience
in Vietnam.
He was a Vietnam vet.
He did pull his weapon, but
he had it down to his side.
>>EMERY: How was he
responding to this encounter?
>>DOTY: He said to me, we've
got to be careful of it.
He was calm, but he said, we've
got to be careful of that.
And I said, I'm not sure if
that's just a human dressed up
in a suit.
He said, you're nuts.
[LAUGHTER]
He said, that's no human
dressed up in a suit.
I didn't know this at the time,
but he saw other beings behind,
farther away.
Because he's at a
different angle.
He's over here.
He's probably three or
four feet away from me.
And he didn't say that to me at
the time, but later he told me.
So then I decided,
let's just get out.
Let's just retreat
back to the vault door.
>>EMERY: Was there any
communication or sounds going
on that you could hear?
Was there any movement
with the being
to show any type of force?
>>DOTY: When I moved forward,
the being moved forward.
When I stopped, it stopped.
I didn't see it have
any weapons in its hand.
I didn't see any
weapons anywhere else.
I didn't hear or
detect any voices.
It wasn't as if it was trying
to communicate with me.
I didn't hear
anything in my mind.
We continued hearing
the humming sound.
I didn't want to move--
I didn't move any closer.
I backed up a couple steps.
It didn't move.
And I turned around
and went back.
>>EMERY: Did you casually
turn around and walk away?
Or was everyone running?
Or any chaos going on
there with the crew?
>>DOTY: We casually-- my
partner, Steve, he looked--
he continued looking forward.
And like I said, he's
a combat veteran.
This guy had been
in Vietnam, not me.
But he was in Vietnam.
He'd engaged enemies.
He was more
combat-oriented than I
was, although I had
a lot of training,
but I didn't have
that type of training.
I turned around.
I turned my back on the being.
He didn't.
He walked backwards.
And when I saw him
walking backwards,
then I turned to my left,
and then I realized,
I better keep an eye.
All the time we were moving
back another 50 yards
to the vault door, and at
no time did that being move.
The being stood its ground.
The being never made any
hostile gestures towards us.
Its arms are continually
down at its side.
The being never moved.
And then we shut the vault
door, and that was it.
So then I went back to the base
and I talked to the commander.
And at this point, he
said, did you see what--
I said, yeah.
I said, ETs have penetrated
a United States Air Force
base, the most
secret base on Earth,
and you guys didn't
hear anything about it?
He said, we're working on it.
I said, you got a plan?
He said, we got a plan.
I said, what's the plan?
He said, well, we got to
coordinate with the highest
level.
I said, well, what's your plan?
He said, well, once we get
the plan, we'll let you know.
So I went back and
I did a long report.
I mean, pages of report.
And I sent the report up.
And I figured a couple
days, they'd respond back.
I think we got back at
6/7 o'clock at night,
I did a report, sent it up.
I went back to the dorm and
came into office about 6:00
in the morning.
And we had a security
policeman in there
that guards the facility.
He said, sir, you
Special Agent Doty?
I said, yes.
He said, you need to call this
number as soon as possible.
I looked at the number and it
was a autovon secure number,
DNN number--
DSN number.
So I went in the KY,
called up, and it
was Colonel Law, who
was the commander
of counterintelligence for OSI.
He said, you need to fly
to Washington tomorrow.
He said, I got a
special mission aircraft
at Nellis that's
going to fly you
and this other special
agent to Washington.
>>EMERY: A special
mission aircraft.
>>DOTY: Special mission
aircraft, and that's
really unheard of.
You know, presidential
support details,
when we're in DEFCON 2, or
something like that-- maybe.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: I said, OK,
we'll be at Nellis.
So I got the other
agent and we went out
to Nellis the next day.
They flew-- I mean, actually it
was that afternoon-- flew us.
We got to Washington--
landed at Andrews,
went to our OSI
headquarters at Bolling,
and went into the secure room.
And the colonel says, we got
a major problem out there.
I said, is it
something I did, sir?
I was kind of scared
that he's going
to chew my butt for something.
I was so persistent.
He said, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no.
You did everything right.
He said, they've hid it on us.
Nobody up here knew about it.
I said, what?
He said, nobody within
headquarters staff,
Air Force headquarters,
Pentagon, knew about it.
Secretary of the Air Force
didn't know about it,
the secretary of Defense
didn't know about it.
>>EMERY: They keep it
very compartmentalized,
and people don't realize that
a lot of these heads of state
and people, even the
president, might not
know about things like this
that are going on out there.
>>DOTY: Plausible deniability,
I think it would be.
And I said, I can't believe--
I can't believe it.
He said, I couldn't
believe it either,
but I started asking
questions, and I
had to go over and brief
the secretary of Defense.
He was outraged--
Caspar Weinberger.
What?
He didn't believe any of it.
He said, you guys
are making this up?
Is this part of a war game?
Is this part of some kind
of psychological game?
No, we've got proof of it.
We saw it.
So then the ball kept rolling.
And we briefed-- I briefed
a couple other people,
a group of people.
And we went back, and
a short time later, we
were told that it was
going to be taken care of.
And I kept asking
the question, how is
it going to be taken care of?
He said, we're going
to take care of it.
We've got nuclear weapons
at Nevada Test Site.
We're going to use that facility
as a testing of a weapons
system.
>>EMERY: So did you know
and follow up on that?
Or was that the last briefing
that you received on that?
>>DOTY: That was
the last briefing
I received, although they had a
test in Nevada Test Site, Area
20, which is in the northwest
portion of the Nevada Test
Site.
And they claimed
that the detonation
of this normal, routine, nuclear
weapon that they were testing
was going to occur at--
there, but in actuality, it
occurred at Urania mountain.
They did it all at Urania.
I don't know--
I wasn't ever privy
into how they did it,
how they dropped it, how
they placed it in there.
But it had to have been some
team of people, soldiers
or something, that got it in.
I don't know.
I was never briefed on it.
I just know that the explosion
occurred, because we could
feel it to where we were at.
>>EMERY: Do you think there
was any repercussions for us
blowing that mountain up with
the extraterrestrial base
and craft there?
Did you ever hear of anything
negative that came back on us
because we did this?
>>DOTY: Yes.
But that would be something
that would be still
probably classified.
There was a couple
incidents that we felt,
we OSI felt was
repercussions for it.
Although the government--
the Air Force
itself never
readily admitted it.
But there was some
incidents happened,
bodies found, things happened,
our facility is destroyed.
We had a-- without
going into great detail,
we had a very, very, very
expensive facility, millions
and millions of dollars,
that was located
in a remote area of
Tonopah, and that
was destroyed months after
we destroyed that mountain.
Now, I don't know for a fact
that it was retaliation,
but I think the government--
and we figured it was.
>>EMERY: What about
the assassination
that happened with the
portal that opened up
during the important meeting?
And a being came
through and pretty much
leveled all the
officials in the room
except for a few
and the two security
guards that were outside?
>>DOTY: That
happened at Bolling,
a very secure facility,
hardened facility,
wasn't easy to penetrate it.
It was underground.
Security police guarded it.
There was a high level meeting
occurring inside the room.
Some of the same
people that had been
involved in decision-making
regarding Urania
was in that room.
And a portal opened, a
witness, the survivors told us,
and a hideous looking
being-- although I
don't know that they ever fully
described it-- had a light.
It was all lit up.
And it harmed a
lot of the people--
killed some and harmed
others in that room.
So a connection between the two?
Probably.
>>EMERY: Right.
Could you tell me if the colonel
or general was in that room
when that happened?
>>DOTY: One of them was.
Yes, one of them was.
>>EMERY: Once again,
Rick, thank you
so much for sharing
these amazing stories.
And thank you for
being on the show.
>>DOTY: Thank you, Emery.
>>EMERY: My name is
Emery Smith, and this
is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]